Welcome to the next section of our course building and testing AI agents, rags and chatbots using Lang
chain with Olama and local large language models.
And in this section we'll be talking about testing, also known as evaluation of our large language
models.
So we are going to understand how we can actually perform that evaluation of large language model in
this particular section.
So Llms are typically evaluated using standardized set of data sets designed to assess their performance
across a diverse range of tasks, such as text summarization or open book question answering or code
generation and language understanding, and these data sets serves as a benchmark to provide a fair
and competitive analysis of different models, helping researchers and developers gauge their effectiveness
in handling real world scenarios.
So that is how we can really assess a large language model.
It's not something like a normal software code that you write in a Python, and then you assess it,
that whatever that we have written in the Lang chain and then verify some unit test and write it with
some end to end test.
Now those things, we can't do it because we are really accessing an large language model in here in
order for us to test them.
These are the things that we have to do to make this happen.
And in the large language model, evaluation metrics used in the benchmarking LMS vary depending on
the type of task being assessed.
Most tasks are evaluated using traditional LNP metrics.
Some of these metrics are.
The traditional metrics are like exact match, which measures whether the model generates the answer
is an exact word to word match with the ground truth.
And there are other common metrics includes the blue or bilingual evaluation, understudy for machine
translation, and there is also called as rogue or otherwise called as recall oriented understudy for
gisting evaluation.
So these are the things that is already there to validate it.
And the final one is the F1 score for the classification and information retrieval task.
So you can see that these are the traditional way of testing the large language models.
So if you have really got my other course in Udemy on understanding, test and fine tuning the AI models
with hugging face.
In this particular course, I have also talked about how we can do functional testing of the AI models
using temperature testing, repeatability testing, question answering, named entity recognition and
stuff.
And I have also talked about the evaluation of the AI model using the unseen data as question and answering
models using NLP libraries, and also how we can do the fuzzy match logic and also the bias fairness
and testing of the AI models.
So these are things that you can see that most of these testing that we are doing in this particular
course are exclusively for testing the large language models in such a way that they actually respond
as based on the ground truth that we have got.
And the same thing happens over here as well with the exact match.
Blue, rogue and F1 score for the classification and the LM evaluation metrics fall into two broad categories.
One is the traditional and non-traditional, as I just told you.
So traditional we just saw in our last slide.
And the non-traditional metrics leverages the semantic understanding and the model's own capability
to assess generated text.
And this can work with or without reference text using techniques like embedding similarities, perplexity,
and LM based scoring.
You might have seen these things like embedding similarities and perplexity in our earlier lectures
of this course or earlier sections of this course where we are doing embedding, while we are doing
the vector database to store the data.
And we needed the embedding models to do the embedding of the conversion of the text to vectors.
So we were using an embedding models.
So embedding is a technique to do that.
And uh similarities.
We also saw the similarities score for the vector database while we were trying to pass a text.
And it was giving us a response.
And we were doing the embedding similarities over there.
So those things we have already seen even in our earlier sections of this course.
And that's exactly what they're talking about over here, as well as one of the non-traditional metrics
that you can use to evaluate how your LLM really behaves.
And we'll talk about the another most important part of the evaluation is the bird score.
So this is a bidirectional encoding based approach.
That is candidates text and reference text are fed into the DL model separately to obtain embeddings.
And the token level embeddings are then used to calculate the pairwise cosine similarity matrix over
here.
So this is the way that you can use the embedding uh, to perform the similarities of the text.
So you can see that these are the different ways that we can use the techniques to perform the testing,
uh, in the large language models.
But because we are not going to be focusing just on the large language model, but we are focusing on
how we can test the application, which is built with lang chain like AI agents or Rag based applications
or even the chatbots.
How do we actually perform these operations?
We are going to talk about that in our next lecture.